Analytics for Startups

Notes from Ilya Volodarsky’s talk as part of Y Combinator’s Startup
School 2019 Series.

Original Video: here

Why Analytics

Use analytics & data to:

1.  Test product market fit
2.  Focus the team
3.  Operate/grow the team

Funnels

Example: Creating a funnel for Netflix

Typical funnel for most companies:

[Funnel]

Apply your own custom business funnel to the template:

[Netflix Custom Funnel]

Collecting Data

Track info such as signup events, video played, subscription events.

Event properties

Video streaming services:

-   What videos are they playing?
-   How long are the videos they’re watching?
-   How far into the video did they get?

Subscription Business:

-   Send MRR metrics

If transactional metrics:

-   Transaction value metrics

Top 3 Metrics + Product-Market-Fit Methodology

Acquisition Metrics (Signups per week)

Cut by invite types (organic, referral/invite etc.)

Retention Cohorts

Think about cohorts of users.

Picking the right cohorts (example)

[Picking A Metric]

Reaching Product-Market Fit

[Reaching Product Market Fit]

Revenue

Other Suggestions

Dashboards

Put metrics on a dashboard, and put the dashboard somewhere where
everyone looks at it frequently. It can be painful to look at, but being
a data-driven team means you talk about projects and what those projects
are doing to the metrics, completely understanding their business. It
also means that any employees that comes in thereafter will also be
driven off those same metrics.

Social Accountability

Package up how your company is doing into an email. This helps
synthesize what is actually happening. Send it to friends, family,
advisors, and tell them where you are struggling and what your plans are
to fix it.

This allows those advisors to quickly understand the business and
respond with more appropriate advice.

Best in Class Tools

Stack Over Time

[Stack Over Time]

Private Beta

-   Get 10-20 customers to try the product
-   Have very direct line of communication with those customers

Launch

-   Try to get here ASAP
-   Just a larger market to use your product and test Product Market Fit
    on

Tools at Each Stage

MVP

-   Google Analytics (Who’s coming from the internet to your website)
-   Amplitude (Which features are they using, how engaged are they with
    those features)

Private Beta

-   Live Chat (direct line of contact with customers)
-   Data Warehouse (democratize the data)
-   Email & Push (do as soon as you do signups)
-   Help Desk (share inbox where multiple people can respond)

Suggested Tools

fullstory (improving product usability)

-   Almost every product that’s launched is high unusable for the first
    3 month
-   Customers use it in ways that you don’t expect
-   fullstory let you look at sessions of customers as they use their
    website

customer.io (43-min founder email)

-   Connection between founders and customer that they’ll response when
    they need
-   customer.io is a behavioral email tool (sending scheduled/template
    emails)

Google BigQuery and Mode Analytics (democratizing data access)

-   Mode is a Business Intelligence tool that works on top of BigQuery
-   Lets you ask questions on top of your data (based on SQL)

Common Mistake: Trying to pick the right tool

-   Shouldn’t spend way too long choosing tools
-   Shouldn’t optimize for picking the right tool right now
-   Most tools with give the same result at your stage
-   Set yourself up for change

The Startup Stack

[The Startup Stack]
