Facebook Certified Media Buying Professional

Campaign Planning

Explain fundamentals of Facebook buying

Introduction to the Facebook Family of Apps and Services

Facebook

-   Most widely used
-   Features:
    -   share posts/stories
    -   message with customers
    -   promote events
    -   sell products
    -   accept appointment bookings
    -   post jobs

Instagram

-   Grow brand organically by sharing content or extend reach and
    awareness with paid advertising

Inbox and Messenger

-   Lets you make suggestions, assist with sales and offer support in
    one continuous conversation
-   Sponsored messages also great way to start conversation with
    potential customers

Audience Network

-   Collection of apps and websites beyond Facebook where people spends
    their time
-   Ads served on Facebook campaigns can be automatically adapt to fit
    the respective websites or app it appears in

Suggestions

Grow your business across platforms:

-   More opportunities to connect with your most relevant audience
-   Facebook will optimize your budget to help you get more value out of
    the marketing budget

Key Takeaways

-   The Facebook family of apps and services gives businesses more
    opportunities to reach and engage with their most relevant
    audiences.
-   Facebook can help you optimize your budget and ad placements to
    reach audiences efficiently.
-   The family of apps and services is designed to work together by
    linking your business accounts across multiple platforms.

Introduction to Messenger

Inbox

-   Tool on pages to help manage communication across Facebook apps
-   Benefits
    -   View and reply to messages from mobile or desktop
    -   Single surface to manage communications without have to switch
        apps
    -   Variety of tools to manage and organize messages
    -   See Facebook/Instagram comment , visitor Page posts and Page
        recommendations

Messenger

-   Send direct or group messages
-   Make voice/video call
-   sExchange photos, videos, stickers, audio clips, files
-   Make fast, secure, free payments
-   Send maps and location
-   Use automated messages for your business

Messenger for Business

-   Interact with customers through messaging rather than calls
-   Answer customer queries privately
-   Let people know when you’re available to answer messages and
    comments

Messenger Ads

Deliver automatically to the placement that’s most likely to drive
campaign results at the lowest possible cost

Messenger Inbox

Use: extend reach of ad campaigns

-   Appear in Messenger alongside direct conversations
-   Direct people who click to the selected destination

Click to Messenger

Facebook, Instagram, or Messenger ads that send people to Messenger
conversation with your business

Use: reach people at scale, then continue to interact with them
individually. Open conversations in Messenger

Sponsored Messages

Send highly targeted promotions directly to people who have already
interacted with you on Messenger

Use: Scaled communications between Page and customer. Re-engagement

Key Takeaways

-   Messenger gives people and businesses a new way to connect.
-   Use it to connect and communicate instantly.
-   Messenger ads help you reach more people and personalize customer
    interactions.

Introduction to Facebook

Profiles and Pages

Profile

Where you can share information and updates about yourself, including
things like interests, photos, location, and hometown. People can
connect with others through their profiles.

You control the content of your profile and who sees the things you
share.

Page

A place that lets people, public figures, business and other entities
create a presence on Facebook and connect with the platform’s community.
It acts as the business’s presence on Facebook, and where you can list
your products, services, events and more.

You must have a prole in der to create a Page.

Benefits:

-   Free and simple
-   Provide free tools to help achieve business goals
-   Enable connecting with customers
-   Enable advertisement on Facebook
-   Insights on you and your competition’s Page, as well as the people
    who visits them.
-   Provides people information about your business

Key Takeaways

-   Facebook helps businesses connect and share with the right audience
    online.
-   A profile is for an individual, a Page is for a business
-   You can reach a wider audience by running ads on your Page
