How to Set KPIs and Goals

  The goal of your startup is to grow your primary metrics

Notes from Adora Cheung’s talk as part of Y Combinator’s Startup School
2019 Series.

Original Video: here

Introduction to KPIs

KPI: Key Performance Metrics Definition: a set of quantitative metrics
that indicates how well your business is doing

Benefits of setting KPIs:

-   Keep you grounded humble, and realistic
-   Act as feedback mechanisms
-   Prioritize your time and help you course-correct

Types of Metrics

Primary Metrics

A primary metrics is the metric that you’re willing to bet the whole
company on.

Characteristics of a good primary metrics

-   Does it represents delivery of real value?
    -   Value defined by users as how much money they are willing to pay
        (Revenue) or the number of users using it (Daily Active Users)
-   Does it capture recurring value? (i.e. Monthly Recurring Revenue)
-   Is it a lagging indicator? (i.e. someone has already forked out
    their time or money to use it)
    -   The best indication is when value has already been delivered
    -   While things like email sign-ups may eventually influence
        revenue and/or actual usage, it isn’t the best representation of
        real value
    -   Doesn’t want it to lag too much (i.e. Monthly Active Users) as
        it takes time to understand the impact and movement
-   Is it a usable feedback mechanisms
    -   It should help you prioritize strategy make decisions quickly

2 Primary Metrics

Revenue

Best test to see if people wants what you’re selling

Common Trap: Getting Feedbacks from users who are not paying for the
product

You should always get feedback from paying customers, not someone on a
trial or who uses your product for free. Free users give you different
types of feedback than paying users

Active Users

Consider using Active Users instead of Revnue if:

-   Building audience is a prerequisite to monetization
    (e.g. advertising-based business models)
-   You have very strong network effects

Exception to not choosing Revenue or Active Users

If you are in the biotech/hardtech business. Those industries take time
and money to get your product to market

Solution

-   If no regulatory issues to doing sales pre-product, choose Revenue
    (defined as paid contracts, Letter of Intents, Proof of Contract)
-   Else, things are less quantitative and more binary - figure out
    technical milestones to demonstrate that the tech is working

Secondary Metrics

Don’t ignore other secondary metrics. There is no metric that tells 100%
of the story. Select a set of 3-5 other metrics to pair with your
primary metrics to give you a 360 degrees view

What if I haven’t launched yet?

Metrics don’t matter if you don’t know what the problem you’re solving
and who your customers are.

Once you get to point where you’re building your product, defining your
primary metrics help you think about who your users really is, get
everyone on the same page, and hypothesize on how to get first few users

How to Set Goals

The goal of your startup is to grow your primary metrics.

By doing this:

-   It proves something lots people want
-   It proves that it has the possibility to reach and serve all those
    customers

Set weekly growth rate. Weekly because startup early on needs frequent
feedback, helps divide the progress into doable chunks.

Note (1): Small variations in weekly growth rates can make massive
differences on the month and annual horizon

Note (2): A 1% Weekly Growth Rate doesn’t mean you have horrible
business. You can run a great small profitable business. Not a good sign
that you have a 1B potential. Think about that tradeoff and what you
really want out of your business

Remember to think for yourself. Define goals based not on what others
are doing, but what are ambitious and achievable based on what you’re
doing

Goal design guidelines:

-   Fast initial growth (know that there are ton of latent demand out
    there, where you are today matters (as vol increase, what you need
    to grow gets harder over time))
-   Time to sale (consider how long it takes to acquire users and
    perform sales)
-   Organic vs Paid (Focus on organic growth instead of paid)
-   Exponential vs Linear (focus on exponential goal)

Two ways to picking a goal

1. Pick a growth rate you think you can hit

If you’re hitting your goal: great. Change if hitting it consistently.

If not, figure out why.

2. Time-boxed and absolute goal

Figure out what would something meaningful (revenue, active users) look
like at the end of each period. Then work backwards from there.

How to Leverage Primary Metric and Goals

Benefits of Primary Metrics and Goals:

-   Help you prioritize your time, week over week
-   Rank all ides you have on how to grow, make a good guess on what’s
    gonna have the biggest impact on meeting your goal

Always asking yourself: what’s the biggest obstacle in my way of hitting
my goals and how do I overcome it
