How to Launch

  Launching isn’t one moment in time.

Notes from Kat Mañalac’s talk as part of Y Combinator’s Startup School
2019 Series.

Original Video: here

Launch is not something you have one shot at. Always be shipping. Think
launching is something you can continually do.

Why Launch Continuously

-   A/B test your pitch
-   See how people respond to your product
-   Launching to different audiences: Are you talking to the right
    users?

Types of Launches

Silent Launch

What you need:

-   Domain Name
-   Company Name
-   Short Description
-   Contact
-   Call to Action
    -   Get in touch
    -   Subscribe to newsletter/updates

Friends and Family Launch

Do one as soon as possible once you have an MVP.

Don’t stay in this phase for too long. They might not be the exact ideal
users for your products

Stranger Launch

Online Community

Try to be an active part of online communities (Reddit, HackerNews,
Product Hunt, etc.). Connect with someone in a community that could help
evaluate your ideas product for you if you don’t have access to it.

Write like you talk. No marketing language. No jargon.

Include:

-   introduce your company
-   What are you building?
-   who are you building it for?
-   Why?
-   Interesting insights

Request Access Launch

Possibly build viral elements that incentivize people to share
(e.g. skip the line by sharing product on social media).

Example: “Sent via Superhuman” in email Signature (Superhuman)

Social Media/Blogger

Launch to popular blogs that cover your industry/trade

Example: Joy, a wedding website builder, initially grew from being
included in “top lists”.

Some of these opportunities are ‘pay-to-play’. Don’t. Instead find other
routes.

Pre-Order

Primarily for hardware/physical products

New Feature/Product

Examples:

Stripe founder were in forum threads answering questions, blog about it,
spread the word on social media, pitched to press when they launch a new
product.

Press

Build your own Community

Example: Add people you meet and have discussed your startup to to an
email list, and send them updates on what you’re doing in (semi) regular
intervals. Once a ‘piece’ comes out about your product (e.g. on
TechCrunch), send it to the list and ask for their help for spreading
the news.
