The Scrum Guide

Introduction

Scum is a framework within which you can employ various processes and
techniques. It has especially proven effective in iterative and
incremental knowledge transfer, optimizing for predictability and risk
control.

Three Pillars of Scrum

Transparency

Significant aspects of the process must be visible to those responsible
for the outcome.

Those aspects must follow a common definition of “Done”

Inspection

Frequently inspect Scrum artifacts and progress towards the Sprint Goals
to detect undesirable vacancies

Adaptation

Adjustments should be made as soon as possible to minimize further
deviation

Qualities of Scrum

-   Lightweight
-   Simple to understand
-   Difficult to master

The Scrum Team

The Team

Characteristics

-   Self-organizing: chooses how to best accomplish their work, rather
    than being directed by an outside entity

-   Cross-functional: have all competencies needed to accomplish work
    without depending on others not part the team

-   Highly flexible and adaptive

-   Designed to optimize flexibility, creativity, and productivity

-   Deliver products incrementally and iteratively, maximizing
    opportunities for feedback.

    -   This ensures that a potentially usable and releasable version of
        working product is always available

Product Owner

Charactersitcs

The Product Owner is responsible for maximizing the value of the product
resulting from work of the Development Team. They are the sole person
responsible for managing the Product Backlog.

Those who want to change the Product Backlog items or its priority must
address the Product Owner. No one can force the Development Team to work
from a different set of requirements.

The Product Owner is always only one person.

Product Backlog Management

-   Clearly express Product Backlog items
-   Order the items in a way that best ach#ve goals and missions
-   Optimize the value of the work the Development Team performs
-   Ensure that the Product Backlog is transparent, clear to all, and
    shows what the Scrum Team will work on next
-   Ensure the Development Team understand items in the Product Backlog
    to the level necessary

While the Product Owner may do the work above themselves or choose to
have the Development Team do it, they remain the on accountable.

The Product Owner represents the desires of the committees in the
Product Backlog. For them to succeed, the entire organization must
respect their decisions. Those decisions are visible in the the content
and ordering of the Product Backlog.

Development Team

Defined as “professionals who do the work of delivering a potentially
releasable increment of”Done" product at the end of each Sprint. That
“Done” increment is required at the Sprint Review.

Only members of the Development Team creates the Increment.

Characteristics

-   Self-organizing: No one tells the Development Team how to turn
    Product Backlog into Increments of potentially releasable
    functionality
-   Cross-functional: Teams have all the skills necessary to create a
    product Increment
-   Recognizes no title for team members
-   Recognizes no sub-team
-   Members may have special?ed skills and areas of focus, but
    accountability belongs tp the Development Team as a whole.

Size

-   3-9 people (not including the Product Owner and Scrum Master)
-   General idea: small enough to remain nimble yet large enough to
    complete significant work within a Sprint

Scrum Master

The Scrum Master is responsible for promoting and supporting Scrum as
defined in the Scrum Guide. They help everyone understand Scrum theory,
practices, rules, and values. They are the servant-leader for the Scrum
Team.

Externally, they help those outside the Team understand which of their
interactions with the Team are helpful and which aren’t. They also help
everyone change these interactions to maximize the value created by the
Scrum Team.

Scrum Master Service to the Product Owner

-   Ensure goals, scope, and product domain are understood by everyone
    on the Scrum Team as well as possible
-   Find techniques for effective Product Backlog management
-   Help the Scrum Team understand the need for clear and concise
    Product Backlog items
-   Understand product planning in an empirical environment
-   Ensure the Product Owner knows how to arrange the Product Backlog to
    maximize value
-   Facilitate Scrum events as requested or needed

Scrum Master Service to Development Team

-   Coach Development Team in self-organization and cross-functionality
-   Help the Development Team to create high-value products
-   Remove impediments to the Development Team’s progress
-   Facilitate Scrum events as requested or needed
-   Coach the Development Team in organizational environments in which
    Scrum is not yet fully adopted and understood

Scrum Master Service to the Organization

-   Leading and coaching the organization in its Scrum adoption
-   Planning Scrum implementations within the organization
-   Helping employees and stakeholders and understand and enact Scrum
    and empirical product development
-   Causing change that increases the productivity of the Scrum Team
-   Working with other Scrum Masters to increase the effectiveness of
    the application of Scrum in the organization

Scrum Events

Scrum Events are used to create regularity and to minimize the needs for
meetings not defined in Scrum. All of the events are time-boxed and
designed to enable critical transparency and inspection.

Once a Sprint begins, the duration of that Sprint is fixed. However, the
remaining events may end whenever the purpose is achieved, ensuring an
appropriate amount of time is spent without allowing waste in the
process.

The Sprint

Timebox: One month or less

A Sprint is when a “Done”, usable, and potentially releasable product
increment is created. All Sprints have a constant duration throughout
the entire development effort. New Sprint starts immediately after the
conclusion of the previous Sprint.

Each Sprint has a goal of what is to be built, a design and flexible
plan that will guide building it, the work, and resultant product
increment.

A Sprint consists of:

-   Sprint Planning
-   Daily Scrum
-   Development Work
-   Sprint Review
-   Sprint Retrospective

During a Sprint

-   No changes that would endanger the Sprint Goal are allowed to be
    made
-   Quality of the goals must not decrease
-   The scope may be clarified and re-negotiated between the Product
    Owner and Development Team as more is learned.

If Sprints are too long:

-   Definition of what is being built may chang
-   Complexities may arise
-   Risks may increase

A Sprint enable predictability by ensuring inspection and adaptation of
progress toward a Sprint Goal at least every calendar month. It also
limits the risk to one calendar month of cost.

Canceling a Sprint

Only the Product Owner has the authority to cancel the sprint, and they
may do so under influence from stakeholders, Development Team, or the
Scrum Master.

A Sprint should be cancelled if Sprint Goal becomes obsolete (e.g. the
company changes direction, market or technology conditions changes), or
if the Sprint no longer makes sense given the circumstances.

This consumes resources, since everyone regroups in another Sprint
Planning to start another Sprint.

If a Sprint is cancelled:

-   Any completed and “Done” Product Backlog items are reviewed
    -   Product Owner accepts the items if part of the work is
        releasable
-   Incomplete Product Backlog items are re-estimated and put back on
    the Product Backlog
-   The work done on them depreciates quickly and must be frequently
    re-estimated
